# Smart-Stacking-Arm
In recent years online shopping has taken an ever-increasing percentage of global retail sales. The total percentage of e-commerce in 2015 was 7.4% and that number is expected to increase to 17.5% in 2021(Chow, 2020). This percentage of e-commerce correlates to the rise of packages and deliveries in the U.S. Distribution of packages is a growing industry and with it comes an incentive to make the process more efficient. Currently each truck needs to be hand loaded with packages. This process can take anywhere from a half hour to an hour. Looked at individually, this might not seem to be a significant amount of time. If an average driver loads their truck twice a day that's one to two hours per driver per day to load the box truck. Now take that time and multiply it to the amount of the delivery drivers in the U.S.; and it starts to become a significant amount of manpower wasted. As the industry continues to expand so will the need for a more efficient process to get a package from a manufacturer to a customer's door.
To that end this project is intended to decrease the cost of the distribution network by automating the process of loading the trucks used for deliveries with a robotic arm. The use of a robotic arm is not new in the framework of stacking boxes. However, most of these arms are used for pallet stacking and are restricted in their capabilities. Robotic arms in general are useful in a variety of situations but lack the capability to perform complex tasks. The complexity in automating this process comes from the varied dimensions of each box and the order in which it should be stacked. To measure each dimension a sensor array is used to feed the information to the robotic arm. As for the actual stacking an algorithm was used to enable the robotic arm to decide the order of stacking.
To help with the design and manufacture cost this project was miniaturized. The dimensions of the robotic arm that was created and used is relatively small.  The boxes and sensor array were similarly scaled down. By miniaturizing the robotic arm and narrowing down the problem the intention is to provide the building blocks on which future projects can be designed.
